Add stateless route attribute documentation (#13344)
symfony/symfony-docs: routing.rst

            ;
        };

.. _stateless-routing:

Stateless Routes
----------------

> 

Reviewer: We're also missing  a reason to use this feature. What about adding a short sentence as introduction?
Something like:
```rst
Sometimes, when an HTTP response should be cached, it is important to ensure
that can happen.
```
?

Author: I'd rather add more details for the reason why session is involved: 
```
Sometimes, when an HTTP response should be cached, it is important to ensure
that can happen. However, whenever session is started during a request, Symfony
turns the response into a private non-cacheable response.
```

WDYT ?

Reviewer: Sounds good to me!

             */
            public function homepage()
            {
                // ...
            }
        }

    .. code-block:: yaml

        # config/routes.yaml
        homepage:
            controller: App\Controller\MainController::homepage
            path: /
            stateless: true

    .. code-block:: xml

        <!-- config/routes.xml -->
        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
        <routes xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/routing"
            xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
            xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/routing
                https://symfony.com/schema/routing/routing-1.0.xsd">
            <route id="homepage" controller="App\Controller\MainController::homepage" path="/" stateless="true"/>
        </routes>

    .. code-block:: php

        // config/routes.php
        use App\Controller\MainController;
        use Symfony\Component\Routing\Loader\Configurator\RoutingConfigurator;

        return function (RoutingConfigurator $routes) {
            $routes->add('homepage', '/')
                ->controller([MainController::class, 'homepage'])
                ->stateless()
            ;
        };

> If a stateless declared route is using the session, the application will:
> - Throw an `Symfony\\Component\\HttpKernel\\Exception\\UnexpectedSessionUsageException` when debugging is enabled
> - Log a warning when debugging is disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, if the session is used, the application will report it based on your
``kernel.debug`` parameter:
- ``enabled``: will throw an :class:`Symfony\\Component\\HttpKernel\\Exception\\UnexpectedSessionUsageException` exception
- ``disabled``: will log a warning
```

> .. tip::

Reviewer: This tip seems to not belong to this PR? Should target 4.4?

Author: My mistake :)

            ;
        };

.. _stateless-routing:

Stateless Routes
----------------

> Routes can configure a `stateless` boolean option in order to make sure that the controller

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Routes can configure a ``stateless`` boolean option in order to make sure that the controller
```

> Routes can configure a ``stateless`` boolean option in order to make sure that the controller

Author: Thanks for the review @javiereguiluz 

> So this is more like "probably I won't use the session ... but maybe I use it, and that's fine

You are perfectly right, I shouldn't have written "in order to make sure" but maybe "in order to be notified" instead.

About the non-strictness of that attribute, it was actually a suggestion by @nicolas-grekas. 
In fact, using stateless routes shouldn't break applications in production mode. It's the developer's responsibility to ensure (thanks to the exceptions) that the session isn't used during the development process.
Therefore, you can't indeed use it "blindly" atm.

Is it clearer?

> Routes can configure a ``stateless`` boolean option in order to make sure that the controller

Reviewer 3: Thanks for your comment. The explanation is clear now ... but I don't know when/how to use this option.

I thought it was ... *"I don't use the session"* ... but in fact it's like ... "*Maybe I'll use the session ... and maybe I won't*" 🤔   There's something I'm missing here.

> Routes can configure a ``stateless`` boolean option in order to make sure that the controller

Author: IMO, it's more like, "_session shouldn't be used, and I'll be able to check it during my development process and be notified in logs in production (if I missed something)_"

> Routes can configure a ``stateless`` boolean option in order to make sure that the controller

Reviewer 4: I think this discussion has been resolved in https://github.com/symfony/symfony/pull/36321

    The ``stateless`` option was introduced in Symfony 5.1

Sometimes, when an HTTP response should be cached, it is important to ensure
that can happen. However, whenever session is started during a request, Symfony
turns the response into a private non-cacheable response.

> For details, see :doc:`/http_cache`

Reviewer: Missing a dot.

> Routes can configure a ``stateless`` boolean option in order to make sure that
> the session won't ever be used when matching a request:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Routes can configure a ``stateless`` boolean option in order to declare that the
session shouldn't be used when matching a request:
```

            }
        }

    .. code-block:: yaml

        # config/routes.yaml
        homepage:
            controller: App\Controller\MainController::homepage
            path: /
            stateless: true

    .. code-block:: xml

        <!-- config/routes.xml -->
        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
        <routes xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/routing"
            xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
            xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/routing
                https://symfony.com/schema/routing/routing-1.0.xsd">
            <route id="homepage" controller="App\Controller\MainController::homepage" path="/" stateless="true"/>
        </routes>

    .. code-block:: php

        // config/routes.php
        use App\Controller\MainController;
        use Symfony\Component\Routing\Loader\Configurator\RoutingConfigurator;

        return function (RoutingConfigurator $routes) {
            $routes->add('homepage', '/')
                ->controller([MainController::class, 'homepage'])
                ->stateless()
            ;
        };

If a stateless declared route is using the session, the application will:

> - Throw an `UnexpectedSessionUsageException` when debugging is enabled
> - Log a warning when debugging is disabled.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Throw an :class:`Symfony\\Component\\HttpKernel\\Exception\\UnexpectedSessionUsageException` when debugging is enabled;
* Log a warning when debugging is disabled.
```

(just some minor formatting changes)

        return function (RoutingConfigurator $routes) {
            $routes->add('homepage', '/')
                ->controller([MainController::class, 'homepage'])
                ->stateless()
            ;
        };

Now, if the session is used, the application will report it based on your
``kernel.debug`` parameter:
* ``enabled``: will throw an :class:`Symfony\\Component\\HttpKernel\\Exception\\UnexpectedSessionUsageException` exception
* ``disabled``: will log a warning

> 

Reviewer: ```rst
It well help you understanding and hopefully fixing unexpected behavior in your application.
```
To conclude?

Author: Good idea yes!

> (and setting an empty prefix for your default locale if you prefer it):

Reviewer 4: I'm not really sure how this is related to stateless routes? It seems better suited in e.g. the http_cache articles maybe?

Author: Actually it was my mistake, this text shouldn't be there

            ;
        };

.. _stateless-routing:

Stateless Routes
----------------

.. versionadded:: 5.1

>     The ``stateless`` option was introduced in Symfony 5.1

Reviewer: Missing a dot here too (last comment from me :)
